README.md, before:

# Slint.jl

## This package is in an EARLY development state! You need rust installed if you want to try it out

Slint GUI for Julia

Providing a library for Julia to use [Slint](https://github.com/slint-ui/slint), a GUI library for rust.

## Prerequisites

- Rust
- Windows: Visual Studio Community 2017 (or later) with C++ Build Tools ( [see below](https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl?tab=readme-ov-file#install-build-prerequsites-in-visual-studio-installer) )
- Linux: [see below](https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl?tab=readme-ov-file#install-build-prerequisites-for-linux-tested-with-ubuntu)

## Download/install

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add(url="https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl.git")  # build errors (see below) should be resolved now
```

### Remarks to build errors after `Pkg.add(url="https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl.git")`

On Windows, packages are added to folders like `.julia\packages\Slint\uZ1Dp\`. All folders have full access rights for the current user, but files only have restricted access rights, typically read only. This prevents the build process to succeed because some build artefacts need to be overwritten during build which will fail because of insufficient access rights.
In this case the problematic file is

```julia
.julia\packages\Slint\uZ1Dp\deps\SlintWrapper\include\slintwrapper.h
```

and a solution will be found at some time.

## Working examples

```julia
using Slint
cd(joinpath(dirname(pathof(Slint)), ".."))

include("examples/7guis/booker.jl")
include("examples/7guis/cells.jl")
include("examples/7guis/circledraw.jl")
include("examples/7guis/counter.jl")
include("examples/7guis/crud.jl")
include("examples/7guis/tempconv.jl")
include("examples/7guis/timer.jl")

include("examples/plotter/main.jl")
include("examples/gallery/gallery.jl")
```

## Development and Build

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.develop("Slint")
```

```julia
using Pkg
cd(".julia/dev/Slint")
Pkg.activate(".")
Pkg.build("Slint"; verbose = true);
include("contrib/generator.jl")
```

## Current example work in progress

```julia
# none
```

#### Testing linux build procedure is next.

## REPL examples

```julia
using Slint
s = "export component MyWin inherits Window {
        Text {
            text: \"Hello, World\";
        }
    }
    "
Slint.compile_from_string(s,"MyWin")
Slint.run()
```

```julia
using Slint
file1 = "examples/7guis/booker.slint"
file2 = "helloworld.slint"
file3 = "SingleButton.slint"

Slint.compile_from_file(file1,"Booker")

#setting callbacks needs to be before the next call to CompileFromFile
Slint.compile_from_file(file2,"Demo")
#after last command no callback can be set for file1 anymore!
function print_callback()
    println("Button clicked, Julia responded")
end
Slint.set_callback("button-clicked",print_callback)

Slint.compile_from_file(file3,"SingleButton")

Slint.run()
```

## Install Build prerequisites for Linux (tested with Ubuntu)

as root:

```bash
apt install rustup
apt install build-essential cmake
apt install libfontconfig1-dev
```

as developer/user:

```bash
#installing juliaup:
curl -fsSL https://install.julialang.org | sh
rustup default stable
```

cloning and building the project:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl.git
cd Slint.jl
julia
```

in Julia:

```julia
julia> using Pkg; Pkg.activate("."); Pkg.build("Slint"; verbose = true)
julia> include("examples/7guis/booker.jl")
```

## Install Build prerequisites in Visual Studio Installer

![wi1](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fed0a9ed-8c6d-40b5-bd3c-4ef5b8d69351)
![wi2](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ba48c61c-145a-4310-a96e-b7df646852cd)

Commit message:

only build if environment is set

README.md, after:

# Slint.jl

## This package is in an EARLY development state! You need rust installed if you want to try it out

Slint GUI for Julia

Providing a library for Julia to use [Slint](https://github.com/slint-ui/slint), a GUI library for rust.

## Prerequisites

- Rust
- Windows: Visual Studio Community 2017 (or later) with C++ Build Tools ( [see below](https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl?tab=readme-ov-file#install-build-prerequsites-in-visual-studio-installer) )
- Linux: [see below](https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl?tab=readme-ov-file#install-build-prerequisites-for-linux-tested-with-ubuntu)

## Download/install

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add(url="https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl.git")  # build errors (see below) should be resolved now
```

### Remarks to build errors after `Pkg.add(url="https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl.git")`

On Windows, packages are added to folders like `.julia\packages\Slint\uZ1Dp\`. All folders have full access rights for the current user, but files only have restricted access rights, typically read only. This prevents the build process to succeed because some build artefacts need to be overwritten during build which will fail because of insufficient access rights.
In this case the problematic file is

```julia
.julia\packages\Slint\uZ1Dp\deps\SlintWrapper\include\slintwrapper.h
```

and a solution will be found at some time.

## Working examples

```julia
using Slint
cd(joinpath(dirname(pathof(Slint)), ".."))

include("examples/7guis/booker.jl")
include("examples/7guis/cells.jl")
include("examples/7guis/circledraw.jl")
include("examples/7guis/counter.jl")
include("examples/7guis/crud.jl")
include("examples/7guis/tempconv.jl")
include("examples/7guis/timer.jl")

include("examples/plotter/main.jl")
include("examples/gallery/gallery.jl")
```

## Development and Build

To rebuild libraries set the environment variable

```bash
export JULIA_SLINT_REBUILD=1
``` 

```shell
set JULIA_SLINT_REBUILD=1
```

```julia
julia> ENV["JULIA_SLINT_REBUILD"]=1
```

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.develop("Slint")
```

```julia
using Pkg
cd(".julia/dev/Slint")
Pkg.activate(".")
Pkg.build("Slint"; verbose = true);
include("contrib/generator.jl")
```

## Current example work in progress

```julia
# none
```

#### Testing linux build procedure is next.

## REPL examples

```julia
using Slint
s = "export component MyWin inherits Window {
        Text {
            text: \"Hello, World\";
        }
    }
    "
Slint.compile_from_string(s,"MyWin")
Slint.run()
```

```julia
using Slint
file1 = "examples/7guis/booker.slint"
file2 = "helloworld.slint"
file3 = "SingleButton.slint"

Slint.compile_from_file(file1,"Booker")

#setting callbacks needs to be before the next call to CompileFromFile
Slint.compile_from_file(file2,"Demo")
#after last command no callback can be set for file1 anymore!
function print_callback()
    println("Button clicked, Julia responded")
end
Slint.set_callback("button-clicked",print_callback)

Slint.compile_from_file(file3,"SingleButton")

Slint.run()
```

## Install Build prerequisites for Linux (tested with Ubuntu)

as root:

```bash
apt install rustup
apt install build-essential cmake
apt install libfontconfig1-dev
```

as developer/user:

```bash
#installing juliaup:
curl -fsSL https://install.julialang.org | sh
rustup default stable
```

cloning and building the project:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/oheil/Slint.jl.git
cd Slint.jl
julia
```

in Julia:

```julia
julia> using Pkg; Pkg.activate("."); Pkg.build("Slint"; verbose = true)
julia> include("examples/7guis/booker.jl")
```

## Install Build prerequisites in Visual Studio Installer

![wi1](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/fed0a9ed-8c6d-40b5-bd3c-4ef5b8d69351)
![wi2](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ba48c61c-145a-4310-a96e-b7df646852cd)
